## 20211013-Version-Zero-Transcript

audio1069221449
Thu, 10/14 10:37PM • 1:30:08
SUMMARY KEYWORDS
people, community, voting, governance, system, catalyst, open source, dor, ada, experiments, blockchain, create, talking, point, vote, environment, public goods, build, quadratic voting, reputation
SPEAKERS
Tom, Ken, Simon, Dean, Quaser, Johnny, Tevo, Robert, Felix, Filip, Nick, Melanie, Dereyk, Charlie, Dor, Yoram, Nori, Jonathan, Vincent, George

Nori  00:03
There we go. And well just give people a few minutes to join in. It looks like there's quite a few people who weren't CAs or VCs were dropping in. So, this room is really to just talk about our first Cafe sur le point, which starts on October 16th. And will have a focus on governance and what that looks like around handing that over from IOG to the community. Felix, do you want to add any color or context for the room today?

Felix  00:36
Yeah, I think Voltaire is coming. And one of the main goals also what we saw by, for example, for Dor from the IOG side to the Catalyst Circle is exactly addressing those topics. But we think that this effort and this engagement have to come from two sides. So also to come together as community and to say, hey, what is community actually able willing, possible to do in this regard? And so this culture definitely made for the community to align already to say, Okay, how could the very first move in this direction look like? And how can we support IOG in this regard? They don't have to come with a given deal. And to say, Hey, guys, here, do this, this this when the time is there. So also to give the community a possibility to say, Hey, hey, IOG, look, we have this and that, would it be helpful.

Nori  01:37
And the name of the event is Cafe sur le Pont, which is, it's meant to be cafe style, not like a formal event, or a dialogue, it's really kind of just a conversation between the community and members of IOG, but they'll be coming as community members and not in any official capacity. Because I mean, they could be stating things like that, but it's really just to have a conversation with people and community and kind of, make sure we understand each other and talk about the issues or challenges or bring things up or things that we're really passionate about, that we think everyone should know about. So that's really, to have it Dor, do you want to jump in?

Dor  02:18
Yeah, just to request because, um, I probably won't make it. On the session, but it would be great to somehow capture the conversation in a way that is digestible. Like, it will be hard for me like for, like, if, for example, if I want to, like hear and get inspired by idea that expressed you know, watching a three hour video, it's probably not going to work for me, like, I and also for other people in IOG, like, I think part of the, I would love if, if part of the thinking around the event could also be like, okay, so we had the conversation. interesting ideas were expressed interesting points, like, what's the one pager that would come out of this conversation? What's the most important insights? What are the most important challenges? What are the most important like things that that you can communicate back to us, so we can quickly be able to read it and learn from it and improve the communication. So, in the product process, that's, that's just my request, I think it would really help a lot.

Nori  03:37
I think we can definitely do that. This event is being put on by a new kind of group that's forming called Bridge Builders. And that's a function that we can definitely take on as a group. To summarize and create a one pager, I think that would be super helpful, not just for IOG but for people who couldn't attend. Because I agree watching a three-hour video is probably too much for most people. And if I don't know if Tevo shows up, maybe we'll have miro board of the conversation as it happens in real time. And, Nick, you have your hand up?

Nick  04:14
Yeah, I'm curious to know more about the bridge builders, and maybe how to get involved. Because governance is my background. And there's a lot of research around it. And so, it's what's drawing me here to the Cardona community. And we are just looking for more ways to get involved in those early stages.

Nori  04:32
Sure, we haven't formally launched it yet. It's right now it's Felix and myself and we're working on a website and kind of the concept and kind of trialing the waters with this event. But definitely be in touch. We'll have a more formal kind of announcement of how to participate and what we're about pretty soon. Maybe next week, even I don't know if you want to add anything to that Felix on how people are Just

Felix  05:02
by being bridge builders that's like everything else how to be a proposer by being a proposer. How to Become a CA by being a CA. Yeah, exactly the same.

Nick  05:14
Great. 

Nori  05:16
Yeah. So, if you want to jump in soon, just get in touch with Felix or myself, and we can guide you to the right places. Once we have them established. We'll also be announcing it at Town Hall, I'm sure.

Felix  05:31
I want to come back to what Dor said. So, this is exactly what is this is about. So we can say this, for example, here we can see as a very first draft, already, we have people from the community, we have people from IOG. And it's difficult to explore a ground where open conversation can happen and from both sides for example, say okay, what is requested that effective, effective conversation can happen. So, Cafe sur le Pont has really the ambition to create an overall environment on which effective and functional structure can take place. So therefore, yes, we need to input from both sides from every side to see okay, what do we need to develop and develop this?

Nick  05:31
Okay, great, thank you. Will there be other times like you have the eastern Town Hall and Western Town Hall, just because I think this is like three in the morning for me? this cafe?

Felix  06:36
So you have to get a really early coffee ?

Nick  06:39
Yeah, exactly. an expresso ? Oh,

Nori  06:46
yes. I think as we grow and mature as a group to do these events, and if we get enough bridge builders in the eastern hemisphere, maybe we can meet and bring people in from I because I know there's IOG people in Hong Kong and Japan and other places, possibly that we can pull into the conversation or find a different time. So that's definitely something that's possible in the future if we get enough interest. George?

George  07:18
Hey, oh, yeah, I was just wondering, because Voltaire realistically, it's going to be what later next year, so using Voltaire infrastructure is going to be delayed. So, I guess some is some of the idea here that we'll be making some kind of interim solutions may be expanding on what's being looked at with this Catalyst Circle v2 kind of thing I don't know what that I'm guessing that that kind of process will be open source and that anything technical be open source for that. So, I guess there could be some interim kind of things we use and build upon to have some processes that do these kind of smaller term, democratic kind of systems. Is that is that somewhat the intention? Or is it more kind of hypothetical kind of talking about what we could possibly do? I guess there any, in terms of that direction, what there's only preference.

Nori  08:04
I think the initial preference is to have the conversation and not necessarily come together to make decisions. We just want to make sure that everyone's voices are heard, and ideas are expressed, so that we can go away and actually make things happen. But I don't think the cafe is the right place to be making decisions, at least not in the beginning. I think there's a lot of constituents that need to come together to talk and start to break down some silos. My vision is in the future Cardano Foundation can come and Emergo can come other people that DCF or other things that are happening in the community just so that we as a community can talk to all these different pieces and build those bridges and make sure that everyone is kind of communicating things back and forth. Filip Have your hand up.

Filip  09:00
And All right, thank you, But. I I've been thinking about this lately and I have a question maybe for everybody to pitch in my view currently of catalyst, let's say or even Cardano, right? Is it a plutocratic system, which means, you know, one ADA one vote and you know, and I just want to ask is this fine? I mean, do we do we accept this as a fact of life? Not only blockchain crypto just in general. Like if we look at governance systems everywhere, it's basically plutocratic, right. We may be sometimes mask it as a democracy, but in the end, it's heavily influenced by money. And do we just accept that and work with that or do we try because I've seen a proposal from I think Kendric where there was quadratic voting, I watched the Cardano Live podcast. I'm not sure if anyone's here from there. So, I, you know, do we do we even try to have some sort of a, you know, and let's put the technical things on the side, let's say let's say hypothetically that we can do it, let's say we have beautiful identity, and we have things like that. But do we even try it? Or do we just take it as like a fact of life that plutocracy is going to be there? And we just, you know, we just keep aligning our system, according to plutocratic principles.

Vincent  10:40
I think you have an interesting perspective on that. And I definitely want to hear from Dor. One thing, I think that they've chosen an interesting way of voting where if people have a lot of ADA, and there's ADA being produced, and people are accumulating ADA, it makes sense for, for them to be incentivized to pick projects that are going to benefit the ecosystem. Right. But I do see a point in the future when we've minted all of the ADA that's ever going to be produced, where you could end up in a situation where you have large holders who can effectively just stake and stay rich and stay powerful forever. And literally, like the system is built so that that's very possible, right? You could just stake 20 million ADA, and it doesn't and have the power to keep the power. But I think we're not there yet. And so maybe we do need to look at a transition at some point. But things are working. It seems like they're working well now. I don't know. I it seems like while we're on the way while we're minting, I think there's probably a different set of incentives because there's ADA being produced and there's new large pools being produced and things like that. I don't know.

Filip  11:57
Also just before or I didn't mean to say like this plutocratic system is bad or good. It was just an open question. I don't know. I'm not sure myself. That's what I'm asking everybody.

Nori  12:11
Oh, Dor.

Dor  12:15
Yeah, I mean, it's well. So I think the first assumption is like a bunch of assumptions in that statement. But the thing the first assumption is that there's like a lot of people who want a plutocratic system or something like that. And this is like some kind of, you know, it's kind of like working against the stream to want something else. But I think, you know, if you ask me personally, or if you ask Charles, if you ask anybody, okay, and I think in IOG, and nobody wants that nobody sets the goal for that nobody sits in like, Oh, this is how it's, you know, this is how we want world governance to work. So rich people have lots of power and they decide like, it's actually that's actually not true. And there's, like, you know, I sit in countless meetings, and we're, you know, trying to figure these things out and figure out ways to resolve it. And the truth is, is that any, any type of governance, any type of novel type of governance needs to needs to develop legitimacy over time, okay, to become an alternative and also currently, at least it's the best of my knowledge. Okay, maybe someone here in the room has a quick fix, okay. But but we don't we're not that at the time that we can use any sort of alternative voting model to that, that can't be like Sybil attacked. Okay, so definitely identity like an idea to validate your identity is a pathway forward. Definitely, you know, we're going to start when we can, okay when feasible you know, we're going to start experiments, you know, where there's different decision making mechanisms and, and, and different allocations of voting power and influence will be possible. And I think it's more of a question of for me like personally, it was more of a question of, do we wait in the sidelines and wait for the perfect conditions to arrive and only then start to experiment or we take what we currently have, okay, which is like it's like ADA based voting and leverage it to start to build legitimacy for even like introducing the concept that a bunch, like, like 10s of 1000s of people can make joint decisions together effectively. So it's not ideal, but this is the reality we have. And just know that,  definitely Pro. And, you know, even with this like stuff like rapid funding mechanisms, okay, like we can already start to launch large scale projects where we can see if there's like, decision making specific decision making processes, that are very effective at producing outcomes. And if we can prove that we figured out a mechanism that's more effective, then it's not a matter of ideology, okay. It's it transcends ideology, that becomes a question of, like, I believe in, in this form of governance, I believe in that form of governance, it just kind of become a, an inevitable truth, okay, that just going to become the new norm over time, simply because groups that are making better decisions are going to flourish and are going to outcompete any other group, okay? And it doesn't matter if, unfortunately, you know, like, the unfortunate thing is, it's not going to matter. If it's more moral or less moral, you know, it's going to be about what's more effective, of course, being attractive, like a system that is fair, if isn't, it's engaging, and it's going to have more chances to succeed, I think, because people are going to believe in it, and be engaged with it. And so, I would say, like, you can do both, you know, you can like, like, ultimately, you can concede the fact that currently, this is the best thing we've got, but also start to figure out, you know, how can we actually transition in a controlled way, you know, in in the observable truth way that people can really see that there's alternative than it's undeniable that are better. And that would be like, amazing, amazing outcome. Let's say, like, next year in Catalyst , like in in activity, that catalyst if we managed to get there.

Nori  17:43
Thanks Dor, George. And then Johnny.

George  17:47
Yeah, I don't, I don't really see this as a plutocracy kind of thing fading away in any kind of immediate sense. But I do see like, getting like a Swiss Army Knife of potential new options. I know, reputations, I mean, it's been covered in Catalyst Circle. And we've kind of hosted a few sessions on that, talking about that already. I spending a lot of time in that in the last week, actually. So that's something I'm hopefully going to present some ideas on. But I imagine what will happen is, we can have, there's going to be different levels of kind of democracy, one that is really high level big decisions, which is like challenges and who you vote for. But then you could have done, you know, smaller kind of governments, just literally talking about how we manage this documentation, or something that's really important to the community but is very distributed. And if we can have things like reputation kind of tools, for instance, as one example, that I can prove I have this kind of skill level or reputation based on these contributions, then you can kind of integrate them as, as just the governance thing, or weighted things. So, it could be like 30% of the voting power comes from like a reputation kind of thing, or it's in the rest of its plutocracy. And I think it's going to come to this kind of AB kind of testing. We're going to need some data science kind of look at the history of trialing these kind of things. I don't think there is any kind of easy Yes, answer. And similar with the quadratic voting, I think that has a massive kind of potential things like public goods, where you know, you want to you've got proof of identity. But then you really want to maximize what is the largest amount the population want from this kind of outcome. And it's a public good focus challenge, for instance, whereas a, like a developer ecosystem challenge could be much more focused on does this person is it's meritocracy to have the right skill levels to complete a really high skill level thing that needs to be done to do the protocol or you know, when Cardano kind of pushes its blueprints onto the protocol, meritocracy and scale becomes a really important part for who does those kind of things. Whereas public goods and events and things that don't require the same skill level, could be really good for sort of quadratic voting, they're kind of spreading these different toolsets. So I, I kind of see as this eventually when the Atala prism comes out, like that's the thing I really want to attack is like, how can we kind of start to assess and add some reputation dynamics that we can introduce to things that are low risk to prove things out, and then kind of push this up the chain of changing how we're going to govern each part, but I think it's case Going to take a lot of time, but there's a lot of different ideas that will come out, I think over the next few months, basically. And that's, that's me.

Nori  20:09
Thanks, George, Johnny, you had your hand up.

Johnny  20:11
I think the other thing, too is when you hear. I think about the existential threat to the incentive system. But at the end of the day, I think the thing I love most about catalyst, so far has been this iterative approach, right. And it's just not all at once it's each fund, it's scaling up. And I really respect the teams for really looking at the data, really analyzing the activity of the wallets, and the participation. And I think we worry about the existential threat, or the potential day of reckoning, but you also have to just look at the data and see if where the value, the chips are falling. And if and if it's in line with, I guess, what we would consider good outcomes or return on intent. And I think the other thing, too, is I love that what, through this, we actually, it doesn't necessarily imply that there will be, the value system that we have within the Cardano community. As I think we've done a pretty good job of attracting people that have a certain notion of community value and civic responsibility and communal effort. Right. And it isn't just about, you know, the pure financial, economic vision of economic self interest, right, I think there is a notion of, people that care about values that aren't purely based on ADA, or Fiat. And so, I think that's a we got to be open to that possibility as well.

Nori  22:10
Thanks Johnny. Tevo you have your hand up?

Tevo  22:15
Yeah, one thing I would like to mention that having this kind of similar, ongoing, same method over and over again, kind of makes us all the people who are here, like thinking, why don't we use this method, or why we don't use this voting solution. And the way the catalyst presents and, like, helps to promote that, hey, your idea is great do it. And, and it kind of incentivizes and gives us that gives us the opportunity to create these small little experiments ourselves in like, safe environment, before we go and crank it up, okay, here is identity. And now that suddenly, because if you make this, like, I have my own experience with that, that we create the identity, and we hand it out. And some people, I also registered that I didn't get the identity, like you didn't have proof of like your volunteer, and it gets so complicated. And it's so like, How have your social or been a bit more complicated than it seems up from, like from afar? So I, the main thing I wanted to change say is that, I think, thanks to the catalyst, we have the opportunity to talk about these things and play around with these experiments in safe environment, which is this place. And with something like this is successful. My hope, and what I have seen is that the catalyst team notices it and puts more power and emphasis on on these successes. And sometimes they pull laws or these great ideas in the catalyst system. For example, when we had this red and yellow flag, which is like the very first thing what I noticed people came up very big discussion came out of it. And then it happened. It was the next fund. I didn't see that coming

Nori  24:27
thanks Tevo, Yoram and then Charlie,

Yoram  24:31
yeah, and continuing what Tevo said actually we can do a nice test, right? I mean, we can actually compare the results based on wallets and compare the results based on the coin system, we can really do that and actually have kind of estimation. much difference as a result, if we compare it based on wallets and based on the coin system, that's something that we can already do. So as Tevo said, I mean we can do a lot of trials and maybe this is I'm going to do already after this one, so the previous one, and we will have some indication how far we are with it two different models from each other. That will be interesting to know, I think that's it, because it's something that definitely should be very highly considered and important cause if someone 90 million he does I mean, so then he's also the only one that counts, or mostly counts. You know, some bigger counts like that. But yeah, let's do this test that we will do this through these checks. That's my suggestions. And then find the next proposal or the next fund. Or even maybe to do it just to do it. I mean, if I can if Dor some of it as a way to get the data on that I'm happy just to do it. And that's it.

Nori  25:51
Yeah, that would be really interesting. And we do have that ability here. Right. So I think that would be a great experiment. Charlie, and then Filip,

Charlie  26:01
Thanks. Nori Good to see you. Um, so yeah, this is really great ideas. I guess one of the things that strikes me is that there's nothing more efficient than a centralized government in terms of getting things done in the short term. And in the long term it can't last, but in terms of accomplishing great things, sort of this executive pressure. And what's interesting with a lot of government structures now is you have structured competing interests. It's interesting how there are as pointed out in the chat technocracies, meritocracies you know, sociocracy is there a lot of different competing interests based on I guess you could look at as different dimensions of power, money being certainly one of them. If these are quantifiable, whether they be like you have a YouTuber who has a particular high level social power, they might not be wealthy in a monetary way. But the power they wield socially, is quite large. If that can be quantified, well, then certainly that can be accommodated. Likewise, there are certain people who have incredibly high technical ability, who we've talked in the CA circles about, about how there's such a need for those people to be proposers. But then we also need people to be able to review them. So you see this sort of power play happening in other realms? Well, if we have a way of quantifying that, and again, this all comes back to the identity, I'm really just validating what you have all said so far. But I would be really excited to see quantifiable realms of power, all implemented, and perhaps even pitted against each other in a way that balances that just some just musings I have had off what you guys have said. So.

Nori  27:55
Thanks, Charlie. Filip, and then Felix had his hand up. He took it down again, if you want to speak you can go after?

Filip  28:03
Yes, I think Charlie said a couple of things that I wanted to say. Also, someone wrote in the comments, I'm afraid we all think too much alike to have meaning representations. So please bear with me, if I'm a little bit contrarian. It's nothing against anybody here, you know, I'm just trying to look at it from a different angle. That's all. That's all I

Quaser  28:23
feel if I'm the one that wrote that. Okay. Yeah. That

Filip  28:27
makes sense. Yeah, that makes sense. So are there like, like, Charlie just said, that reputation will always have something that is socially, it's our personal identity is one thing, but reputation is a totally another thing. And reputation of Dor is how I and all the rest of us perceive Dor reputation of Filip is how you guys perceive Filip, it has nothing to do with me. I have no control over it. Okay, I can act in a way I can try to manipulate whatever. But it's, it's, it's from out it's coming from outside. And it's extremely dynamic. So I think, honestly, to attempt to quantify that, it's not going to happen in a year or two years or five year I think it needs something revolutionary to quantify someone's reputation, right? And even if we don't quantify it, how do you put it in? Because let's think about any governance system, we have any voting system we have, whatever, humans first issue is they need to interact. There's 35 of us in this room, and we are all you know, active as much as we can be. We want to scale this to 35 million to 1 billion to 3 billion, right? As far as I know, there was no system in history that had like 95, 97, 99% of people going out to vote. I don't know about that, that that is a problem. I think that's a huge problem in and of itself. If you have five people voting 5% of people voting, then those five people, 5% of people make the decisions. And how do you, how do you? How do you make the rest? Think about the problems themselves. It's overwhelming. And it's a huge scale. So and then, of course, what do we put in ? We put in representative democracy, okay, great. It's, it's, you know, a solution. But then, you know, if I'm very popular, and everybody delegates their vote to me, then again, I'm voting with 1 billion ADA. And then maybe Johnny is willing to pay me, you know, a couple $100,000 to pass something for him. Right. So we're getting back to the same problem. And it's just it's, it's difficult for me to even think about the possible solution. That's

Nori  31:02
definitely good things to think about. Thanks for sharing. We have a queue. Did you want to jump in? Felix? I know you had your hand up. Okay, we can go to Nick and then Ken after them.

Nick  31:20
Yeah, I think one of the big things we have to start with is really involving all the stakeholders, I think we're still such a niche environment that we're going to get very limited perspectives. And there is ways to measure that. And like I said, there's a lot of research out there. That's what my proposal Cardano community campus is all about, is using the sociological and psychological research on how to build communities through archetypes. And it's a way to understand if we have a holistic community, a holistic environment in which to actually gather all the right information to make these decisions, I think we jump right into voting. And that's like the big kind of pain point. But I think before we even really can handle that properly, we have to ensure that we have all the right players involved on the on the team and in the community in order to find the way forward. So I think there's a lot of solutions. And I think like Charles said, you know, we're going to have centralized and decentralized there are phases where you need one versus the other. And I think moving out of this like either or world, like it has to be either this or that. And understanding that when we say both, and we can see that certain times in certain phases of businesses, or certain phases of projects and things like that, and the different types of structures. And so, I really want to focus on let's gather the human capital in the right environment, and then a more emerging space, not just iterative, emerging meaning we actually create a space where things can come through in this effort of play and making mistakes and curiosity and imagination, because I think that's where the blue oceans are going to be for us. Because if we always come at it from this perspective of there's a problem, we need to fix it, you're coming at it from a little bit of a narrow perspective. But if you actually take the time to nourish the right environment, I mean, it's just like an organic farmer, you tend to the soil, you know, and then the soil grows and grows the vegetables, so I think everyone has like very valid points, but I think we're really not going to get closer to the solution until we know how to build community in a holistic manner. And for me, that's involved in archetypes which allow us curiosity and exploring, you know, like which archetype or roles we dominate in which ones are needed to build a whole community. How these different archetypes actually interact with each other, where the friction points are, and then at the base level, provide a way to address conflict as a way forward and not as a separation or just yeah, long drawn out, like, you know, stalemate kind of thing. And so if we have an environment that is the co innovative, and is curious and allows us this ability to get to know each other, and why each of these different facets are needed in the community, and we have ways to take conflict, not as a disruption, but as a way forward, then that will provide us the right environment in order to find these solutions. I think we have to start there before because I think all you know, we can talk about the voting and different situations need different things. I've been in projects that do great in sociocracy and some of the more centralized stuff, or more representative stuff. So I think there's like Charles said, it's going to be a both and world. And I'd like to really just focus on this environment and how do we create this right environment.

Nori  35:00
Thanks, Nick. Ken and then, Tom

Ken  35:05
Oh, yeah, like some of the things that Nick was just talking about, one of the things I wanted to say was, it's important that you have, like, if you just have one, one system, then everybody's stuck using that system. The freedom to leave, or to choose a different way of doing things is important. Catalyst is just one system. And with Cardano, it's possible to build whatever other voting system you want to build on it. I don't know, I think if you were to look at it, like the way that people choose a stake pool, it's sort of a form of voting for which pool you think is the one that you that you're aligned with best. If some mechanism like that was in Catalyst that would allow people to experiment with different systems, all within one overarching system, that might be an interesting thing to do. It's also important to note that when you're voting with your ADA, there are some things that like with voting for things that have to do with the integrity of the blockchain, for storing value, that's something where maybe it's people who have a lot of ADA, possibly have a better interest in maintaining that, it might also have to do with, like, how long are people have had their, their money in order to because I can think of situations where someone might put their money onto Cardano platform, just so that they can vote for something that's not good for the network or something like that. But yeah, I, again, I agree with some of the things that Nick was saying about having the ability to what things emerge from different experiments, and giving people the ability to interact with these different experiments and see what works better than what else?  Thanks Ken. Tom. Great to hear from you. And then TiVo.

Tom  38:21
Yeah, so just my two cents there that. I like that conversation, I'd like this question, because we should just assume that corruption will occur, we should just assume that the system, no matter how successful will eventually collapse from its own weight. And the benefit of Cardano, or any type of project like this is that the keys to rebuild something new, are publicly available, and always being innovated on. So, the idea of making sure that a system is always has all these protections against corruption, you're just, I mean, we're just, there's always good people who want to take advantage of the system that's beneficial to them. And so I say, let's just assume that will occur. So, assume it will occur it'll occur a little bit further out. And in the meantime, they'll tools to the southern use and use a, you know, a new system afterwards, as I like to say alright, Tevo. So,

Tevo  39:26
yeah, so many topics have been in between, of the Firestarter Filipe, with his radical questioning and like, I understand the problem of like, how do you explain it to a person who is outside of a blockchain and you explain, hey, don't trust governance here is much better solution for you ADA. What is Ada high it's a cryptocurrency it's proof. It's all good. And like, this is a very radical change and then you will Have once you get somebody to talk about it, and when he really wants to prove the point that Yeah, but it's still not safe, it is possible to do that. So, it's very hard to fight from that angle. So, I like the way Nick started with, like, how do we make the Maybe not to making worse, but make the economy or the ecosystem very healthy? And I don't know, maybe, I don't see. But I think the education is the only chance to get there. And this iterating thing we are doing, we are educating ourselves. And I don't think any with any of us, these experts, or even the catalyst team themselves, or IOG, I think they are all they have smart people, they have the templates, and they have thought really deep how to do it. But I think even they are experimenting with all of this and they are not experts here as much as we are and we live and learn how to we just should govern, or how do we how do we even educate to govern ourselves and self-governance of that. And one thing pointing out what Ken said that what if we could have an overarching system, which has all these capabilities that we can flip and change and oh, we need this voting system. Okay, snap a finger Let's vote majority Okay, the quadratic vote here and everything behind the scenes magically update. I think this is also quite good some experience. So I don't want to see anytime soon. And I like it simple as it right now I know it the system is stays the same. Quite mostly. And this is step by step, slight slightly changes. Because if we have this huge opportunity for everybody to fiddle, fiddle with all the possible parameters we have in this ecosystem, then I think we've all I think it's very hard to find the alignment in that. So, I rather do one product or one service at a time with the best possible knowledge with the best thing we think it fit for that moment. And, and like, boy from step by step from that. Instead, instead of trying to build like, crazy, crazy system. But that's just my opinion.

Nori  42:46
Thanks, Tivo. Vincent, you have your hand up, and then we'll go to Dean. 

Vincent  42:55
Yeah, so. was just curious about so I think a lot of really great ideas. It might be fun to have a way to replay the votes under different schemas, right. So, I mean, no matter how you count the votes, we still have, effectively like wallets in ADA, we still have the same amount of information going into each vote, unless we do like rank or quadratics. Like that, um, but I think it might be fun to in an anonymized way, if possible, replay a vote and see. See, I don't know if we change certain things. If we try these different systems. What might that change as far as which proposals get picked? You know, I think that might be cool. I don't know just a playground of sorts to actually take the real voting data. And the real proposals, because those are the effectively public mean your commander, I don't know what that is. But just to put them in a place where people that want to, to more intensely study voting behavior and outcomes and overlaying new systems might be able to do that. That's it, I was thinking that'd be cool to have access to that data in a really clean way. In one nice package, so that the DS folks like me can go in and take ideas from the community, it's okay, if we did this, you would have gotten these proposals instead. And then we'd also have like the VCA reviews and stuff like that. So we can actually see like if we tried to optimize for higher VCA score or higher CA assessment scores or higher impact scores, or more variety in in terms of proposer name, ethnicity expectations, so he knows those kinds of fun stuff he can do. It just might be cool to

Robert  45:00
Just quickly, oh, PACE. And myself, do want to make all of those data available as an API. So who knows, you might at least get the raw data. One of these, we have a proposal for that in this round, to gather that proposal data in a structure API available to the community. cool idea. 

George  45:28
There still lots of chats with Marek and IOG to sort that out. We've still got plenty to iron out to make this symbiotic relationship for sorting out data. But that is that is coming. We're pushing for it.

Nori  45:40
Awesome. All right, Dean, you have your hand up, and then we'll go to art. Yeah. And then Jonathan? Yes,

Dean  45:49
um, before I begin, let me explain. This is my second town hall meeting. And I've been I've known about Catalyst native for about three months now. And it's brilliant as to what's going on. That said, I'm also wanting to just share my background was back in the 90s. And moving forward Linux, and open source is not what it is now, what it was back then, the company that I was working for was the company that sued Microsoft, in order to get DOS, MS DOS monopoly off the marketplace, in order for Linux to start being installed on different types of hardware. And what I'm finding out is when I attended the summit, there was some very interesting similarities. Things that I found extremely interesting as if going through the exact same process. So back then, open sources was a really bad word. Back then, if you bet your career on open source, you were giving everything up. Because no one understood or cared about open source. In fact, we had to have a trade show, literally, where we had Linus Torvalds says, Hi, my name is Linus Torvalds. And I pronounced Linux, Linux, we still call it Linux. But he literally had to educate the market. Some things that I've that I've watched and seen said here is very much the similar thing, Nick, Tom, what you were saying, and what's being said, and here now was the very same things we were facing back then when we were trying to figure out how in the world that you communicate to people, the value of open source, right, we were basically talking about why open source has become a huge business model. And our Nemesis was Microsoft. And the reason I'm giving all this background is to hear these conversations, and to hear some things that are going on is very similar. What we came to find out very quickly back then, and it was very painful, was it was a based upon the innovation of value. innovation of value was what would drive the market to be accepted, when people began to understand the connections between how the value was being brought forward. It was like, once someone saw the connection and the connectivity, it was the light would go on, they would begin to create their own visions of how they could start utilizing the structures. So now, leap forward Three months, I've been doing things in open source, price management and all that stuff. I'm somewhat technical, but I am very much a business side person. I'm the guy that can connect business. And I'm trying to reach out to find out, how can I help with Cardano. It is brilliant.  There's nothing that I can do. There's nothing that I can do to say here's I can put this catalyst together. But I can certainly help 30 other people know how to get their products across will be called the chasm, that product acceptance model, that structure that basically says, we’re not creating technology for the sake of creating technology. we're enabling value and innovation as we continue to move down that line. I'm not sure about how voting works. inside. I'm still trying to figure that out. But what I can say is this. All of the emerging technologies, everything we're dealing with, requires people who understand how to move from the technology structure into the value-added environments. They want to see this. I'm willing to help whomever I can who's willing to reach out and say, hey, can you kind of help? I took a look at wanting to be a CA but that's all-technical side of things. So, I've reached out to a number of people saying how can I help to bring along there are people like myself, mentors that have been there and done that who want to come Say, how do I help you on the business side? How do you take your technical terms and move that into that environment? And that comes with the creation of value and the vision of value. And this is Deja vu all over again for me, you can substitute Microsoft's name in with Facebook, Amazon, and Google all over again, take a look at the exact same lawsuits, take a look at the exact same things and look back and go back to 1990. And the 90s. And the reason I'm bringing this all up is there are some who would just love to help take some of some of the things I saw these last two Town Halls are phenomenal pieces of technology and are phenomenal pieces of opportunity. The real vision comes when the value gets created, and it gets connected. And the things that Nick was saying, and Tom, we had the exact same conversations. And I will tell you, there was a point in time when we basically said do, we stop delivering Linux, because Linux open source could be utilized as a bad thing. We had to make a hard decision. And then we realized this, those who will create the value, and those that will help extend the value will always innovate towards goodness, they will do that. And so again, there are things as I see in the marketplace, I'm not sure about voting. I own ADA, I I’ve examined all I've examined the various ecosystems out there. Cardano, by far, is the best, there is no question about it, none. And the marketplace will help make the decisions as we begin to understand the value. Now, just from a personal play on my side, I would love to figure out how to help. I may not be able to build technology. But I was one of the people who was figuring out refresh hertz rates on monitors and blowing up monitors when Linux was brand new. There are other people who want to come in and help that way. So, I don't know how to solve the concept of voting. I do know that this when people begin to see the value of vision, that's when they begin to add to that value of vision. And they begin to define that. Thanks.

Nori  52:41
Nice. Thanks, Dean. It's great to have you here. And I'm sure there's a lot of people in the community that would love to connect, like Kriss Baird is starting catalyst boost, which is a mentorship project, which you may be really highly qualified for. and all sorts of other people here, I'm sure are really interested in connecting. So, it's good to see you here at Town Hall.

Dean  53:03
It's incredible. It's like, finally what we what was started has a real shot of truly emerging and not being not being killed by organizations that want to control it by money. And sorry for the passion. But back then you bet everything. Now we have an opportunity, some of us to see it actually mature and succeed. And this is incredible.

Felix  53:33
Dean when you're brave enough, maybe throw up your email address and the live chat. Just have a look what will come to you. I think that a lot of nice people here would, who would love to stay in contact with you.

Dean  53:46
Absolutely all. Thank you. Thanks for Thanks for letting me ramble.

Felix  53:50
Thanks for being here.

Nori  53:52
Yeah, definitely. Thank you, Jonathan, you're next, and then we'll hear from Pop Tart Salads (Quaser).

Jonathan  54:00
Yeah, that was that was phenomenal. Dean, thank you for being here. I've been around for months now. And everything you've said is all the emotions I felt in repeated occasions throughout the time in this community. It's amazing. And I love Linux. Thank you for anything you contributed in that regard. And yeah, open-source movement is just phenomenal. So, if we can replicate any of the aspects of the success of Wikipedia even or, you know, some of these large projects that haven't been from a fiscal pure fiscal back agenda, then, you know, really promote that. Thank you. So anyway, I was I was listening to conversations and thinking about what I'd like to see and could probably go back to what George was saying is different voting types for different scenarios. So, we haven't got a single solution for every problem. So, you know, things in the community that need deciding on are very varied in terms of their, their makeup, whether they are really directional or moral or ethical or in a fiscal level, they've all got different aspects. And so, we should have different tools for those things. Because if you have a single solution for it all, then there are always people who won't be engaged with that type of vote. So if we can, and really, I think my drive is if we can get things more granular, and, and smaller and decision making being made by people who are infused in the areas that they're working in, and, you know, are investing that time, their energies, and they heighten their good intentions in areas that they are, you know, then we play to getting experts to be really involved in making decisions around things that require expert decision making. And yet our big moral decisions, just like Nick was saying, the environment that we're creating and using as part of the environment we've created is really healthy, it's really rich soil. And so, it's very easy for us to see and try and make direction changes now. But it's going to become much harder to go with time, like Filip was saying, but we've got, if we can, if we can get a granular, you know, granular solution in place now that wherever we can, we can be dissipating and spreading the influence outwards, bottom up, rather than top down. I think that's the right way to go about it for us. And, yeah, the least the last thing I want to see is everything being decided on by marketing, which is kind of what the rest of the political and economic realm is decided on. And you know, that doesn't, that doesn't get the geniuses in front of the cameras very often. So, yeah, I like it to be a bottom up wherever possible. Thank you.

Nori  57:06
Thanks Johnathan. Pop tart salads. It's you are up, if you're still wanting to say hello.

Dereyk  57:23
Hello, everyone. Thank you. Nice to see you. In regards to the hiring, it's great that IOG is growing. And we're excited about that. I think some of the things that I'm hearing, and we've been hearing is, you know, a desire to be more integrated and open communications with IOG and CF. Is there a way to start to consider some of these, the hiring, onboarding, being outsourced to people in Catalyst? Or is there a way to find a group of people in catalysts that could take on some of that stuff to begin exploring this, this really dynamic relationship of the corporate versus the corporate and open community blending mechanism? I mean, it's, it's a bizarre dynamic. So, I was just, what are the answer is just see if there's something to think about with it. Because I don't know if many people have done it. So be cool to see. That's it. Thank you.

Nori  58:32
Thanks, Dereyk. Nick, you're up next, followed by Ken.

Nick  58:41
Yeah, like, Yeah, what Dean shared? I mean, I think the reality is, is is our biggest investment, like our biggest asset is really the human capital that's involved. And the investment we put into making that human capital work, in order to be the most innovative environment and like, sustain that environment, because the technology is going to change over time. And I've just been a part of many startups and consulted many startups that had superior technology, but really lost out because they didn't, they weren't able to connect properly with their clients or they weren't able to nurture long lasting, innovative environments. Yeah, all that kind of other stuff that people talked about, you know, this old system comes in and starts cracking down and then it really just starts to disconnect the people. And so, I really think that Yeah, governance, again, we jumped to voting, but governance really is about like, how do we nurture each person to help them go into their genius zone. And then and then like I said, when conflict arises, we move them through. And there's a ton of research around that. And if nobody's ever, if you haven't read about, you know, archetypes, it's the number one thing since 2015 that from international corporations. All the way down to entrepreneurs are doing to connect better with their clients and tell that story like Dean was saying, those are the bridge builders who are bringing value to our clients in our language and our wording they can understand and not just like language as English, but in a story in a way that's relatable to them. Because I keep running into person after person after person who, who Yeah, like wants to get involved right now. And they're smashing up the current technology or the current platforms being used to get involved. But they love this idea, because they see the potential that Cardano has to be able to really bring out this, you know, self-governance, this open source, this financial freedom in order for us to create this world that we want to live in. And I think before we even get into, like, yeah, finalizing the details on the voting and all that kind of stuff, we have to talk about, like, how are we nurturing innovation? And how are we bringing in stakeholders that aren't currently involved right now, because I think we're still we have to admit that we're still a very niche market of, you know, crypto and tech people on the current platforms and things have been working well for them. But you know, there's that point in startups when now you want to start gaining, you know, more mass scale adoption or more people, but then that's when that like, trough of disillusionment can really come in, if it's not, if it's not nurtured properly. And there and just like we built the blockchain, we did a ton of research on it, because there is research out there. So yes, there's going to be some experiments. But at the same time, like we need to, we need to build our human and nurture our human capital, just like we did the blockchain. Because there's, there's enough research out there if that shows how to bring people together how to represent communities, make sure that all the right stakeholders are involved in the beginning. And that's my big fear is that like, we're going to start to do this, go, you know, release this governance, but it's still not going to involve all the stakeholders. And so that ships going to be going a little bit sideways until we really have that in place. And so that's, I hope that in the governance talks that come forward, and in this cafe coming up, and things like that, that in the idea of governance, we hit on more the topics that Tamara, you know, talked about that Dr. Mihaela talks about, because those are the things that are really going to nurture, again, not just iterative processes, but the end of the day stuff that we're going to imagine right through if you have the right environment. And that's beta in that we work through conflict way we get people to the genius zone really quickly, on the right projects in the right places, that will be the ultimate driver of our success. And I would like to say the ultimate capital that we can maintain.

Nori  1:03:06
Thanks, Nick, there's a comment in chat. Would you be able to share links to some of that research? And to your proposal as well, if people want to follow up?

Nick  1:03:17
Yeah, yes. Well, more time. on my own, I'll share my Ideascale project. And then there's a ton of research in there talks a lot about this in there. And then I'll put my email in there, too, if anybody wants to email me personally, again, I'm here for this governance community, I just know that having built community like it's the interpersonal dynamics where things start to go sideways real fast, and you don't have the skilled people, and luckily, they're out there. If you don't have that skill, in that environment, then it kind of blows up instead of actually coming together and do something new.

Nori  1:04:00
Alright, thanks, Nick. Can you 

Ken  1:04:08
see I was going to say, like, we as we were talking about, like having a multiple different systems for voting like something that the Tevo mentioned about making things simple, I think that you can consider it from any individual contributor. From their perspective, you want to make things simple for the, for the one who's interacting with the community, whether it's through voting, or whether it's through some other form of engagement, teaching or building up an idea or whatever you want to make things simple from the user's perspective, but also allow for, for different types of experiments to be going on. At the same time, because if as the system grows, like, if we do get to a billion plus people interacting with, with Cardano, then it's, it's not going to be something that you can track and manage as one. That's one thing by itself, without structuring it in a way that's, that has the ability to adapt to different situations in different places.

Nori  1:05:49
Thanks, Ken. All right. Um, we've kind of worked our way through the raised hand queue. And this was actually intended to be talking about Cafe sur la Pont, and kind of answering questions about the event itself. And it's kind of impromptu turned into a mini event of itself. So that's really amazing, because I think there's a lot of passion and interest in this topic. And it was nice to have multiple members of IOG here, as well as the community so that we could kick this off. So, I think we're going to have a trial video here to actually create a one pager based on the outcomes and what was discussed, because I think there's a lot of valuable stuff here. So yeah, thanks, everybody. And we are getting on close to I think, an hour now. So, I don't know if anybody has anything else they want to bring up, we can continue. Or we can call it here and look forward to having the official launch on October 16. Robert, Robert,

Felix  1:06:59
yeah, Robert? Yeah.

Robert  1:07:04
I've been keeping quiet, hopefully, my audio is working, okay, because it was, it's been a bit choppy. Oh, that's good. I'm going to keep this really short, because my throat is sore. Obviously, I was talking too much last night is so there's been a lot of discussion about voting and less, and I just sort of been listening away. First of all, there's a heck of a lot of research, I see someone in the comments talked about, there's a millennium of research into voting and made, it's very true. The area that it's called, is social choice. And it's a heck of a lot of different things. So, within Catalyst, that moment, we're using approval voting, which, unfortunately, is one of the worst ones we could possibly have. But it's the best sort of approach for the moment. And that's good. So, and, but what I haven't heard in the discussion is that there's actually another form of revealing preferences. So, voting itself is just one form of revealing preferences. Before you even get to voting you do, as we've talked about, or Nicks talked about, I think that governance is far more than just voting, it's about actually trying to form consensus. In fact, if you've reached need to use voting, you've probably actually failed at governance, in many respects, because you haven't managed to build a consensus. Right? The other tool, really, for revealing preferences is the pricing system, the market. And one of the key things here is that we've actually got an accounting layer that works on a bookkeeping layer that works on a global scale. And so, we can actually use different types of market mechanisms to reveal preferences for small groups, which we can trust. So this falls into the camp of things like reputation, identity, and a whole lot of other different things can actually be facilitated through market based mechanisms. Not your DEFI token flipping type of situation, but easily we can represent a lot of things about the state of a community through tokens of some form or another and you can establish different sort of rules around that. One of the things that I will just go back to in terms of what Dean was largely talking about, this is my opinion on certain things. And certainly, I was around with the with the open-source days and Microsoft tried to label everyone that did any sort of open-source communists, and various the red threat was resurgent, and all that sort of stuff. And now they fully embrace it, which is, you know, but with only economics. There are basically four quadrants of types of goods that we're typically dealing with. And most of what we've grown up and known about is what's called private goods. So, things like Linux, or any of the open-source stuff was actually more in the camp of what are called common and public goods. And the key distinction between private goods and say common or public goods, is that you can exclude people from. To me, a lot of the blockchain space is about trying to bring back the common resources and the public goods, that's what it's largely about. But that does not mean we have to throw out things that are typically worked quite well for private goods, which is the market system. So, I get there. And just to really make a short, because I am trying to encourage everyone to do a bit of digging into the work of Ostrom, if you're not familiar with it, look at here, go and look at her work. She has when she had spent 40 years looking at how to govern natural resources. And a lot of that work was then subsequently extended into how you govern knowledge Commons as well. And essentially, she's got eight primary design patents that everyone needs to look at. And I really kind of understand. And one of those, I'll just quickly run through them one occurrence has to have a clearly defined boundary. Okay, any sort of system must have a boundary rule to situate in sort of local context. So, a lot of sessions here around local context was brought up. participation is vital for those rules from local context, to enable the group to define and represent its own rules, commons must be monitored. So, a lot of discussion that we've come up is how do you account and report for things, this has to be easy sort of conflict situations coming through. And there's also the idea of polycentric networks, this is the idea that you have different centers of power, different centers of value, and that they nest or interrelate with each other. Okay. And that sort of thinking, one way to think about a lot of her work, is the idea that you can actually bring market-based systems closer to, to the social choice system. Okay, that's the key thing. So, kind of meeting in the middle. The key distinction between a market system and a social choice system is the fact that social choice didn't have the pricing function, that's the key thing. So what you're trying to do is bring the two together. So don't throw out voting, or what it means to be governance, there's a huge amount of work. The nice thing is we can actually experiment with a lot of different voting systems beyond just approval voting, okay, and there is a lot going on. But equally, we can also bring pricing, the pricing fraction closer to revealing those sorts of preferences, the two work hand ahead. And we've got a tool that enables us to bring them together on a global scale. That was longer than I intended. Sorry.

Nori  1:13:33
Amazing. I think there's a lot of interest in that topic. So, if you have any links or anything to share in the chat, I'm sure a lot of people would love to read more. All right, Simon, you have your hand up.

Simon  1:13:51
Hello, everyone. Yeah, I really want to highlight something that I found in the catalyst school Discord server from Stephen. And because I think the main question for this format is how, how we can transition the power from IOG to the community or like, how does how does this? How does the community work together with IOG, and I feel like what he said was very, very interesting. So, I'm going to just post the link here. If anyone wants to read it, I think I should. I'm not sure. Should I just read it or are you going to, like we're going to read it on your way. Read it. I read it. I read what is what is lacking in my view is any real sense of IOG staff and community members working together on day-to-day projects and deliverables, not going away and coming back with resume ideas and proposals. This may take some professionals out of their comfort zone. As we move to a situation where community members amateurs must participate in all Cardano deliverables in actual working meetings, not as an afterthought or community consult or consultation circle has introduced the possibility of this, but it needs to be expanded upon, perhaps there needs to be less concerned about ownership of tasks. E.g., IOG does this, the community does this and more focused on collaborative delivery, E.g., who from IOG and the community can work on this. There has also been a long-standing difference of circumstances between paid IOG staff and unpaid community, which undermines the possibility of ownership and creates the sustainability risk. Once some of our funding and resource initiatives in place, hopefully, that can be a leveling effect as the community have paid for the contribution. Yeah, I hope that was interesting to you as it was to me. I think I can hand over to Harry's now.

Jonathan  1:16:31
Simon, what discord server was that on sorry, the link is on a server, I don't think I have access to the school. Da school.

Felix  1:16:42
That's Yes, what Catalyst. not CA school

Tevo  1:16:46
capitalist, wrote it in circles that I repaired, but it's okay, even I said big fancy.

1:16:59
So yeah, it's definitely been a really great, great discussion, really great points of view, I certainly have lived through a few different waves of technology, along with your Dean, you know, I've definitely seen the changes. And you know that that's what really inspired me into this movement, you know, is to really see how this can change the future, how it can fix a lot of the broken systems that are out there, we do have the challenge that, you know, governance is hard. It's not easy, there is no perfect governance, right. But as a community, we get to sort of reinvent what governance should be, right and take these great ideas, and leverage all the opinions from lots of different places around the world, to try to inform that. So I'm just thrilled to be to be part of that along with you, folks. So and IOG, you know, the thing that I've run into is there's so many people that have come from the community that become part of IOG So I'm really, and part of that path. But a lot of the people, you know, many, many people that you've seen through catalysts have been on that, that path as well. And so I think there can be some opportunities for more and more to sort of join, I think, you know, the idea of catalyst is to fund great ideas and find ways to take people from being observers, to participants, to actually being active in the community to make this your full time job. And that's one of the metrics that we see a success, if we can cause an impact, and create change along the way, and build the ecosystem. So I'm really excited to try to bring tools together as much as possible. And I'm a huge data fan. And, you know, I'm digging into data sources, I want to make data available. I want to make API's available, to empower the community to continue to build the amazing tools that I've already seen being built, you know, through this process, and so I'm definitely encouraged and so I am happy to post my contact information. But I'm really looking to engage and reach out to community members and see where I can be a value and help. It's great to listen to all of the amazing opinions and thoughts and, you know, I think we're well underway of, you know, supporting this, this movement from the community and, you know, our goal is to hand off, you know, the reins of, of driving, you know, the direction of the future on the Cardano platform to the community from IOG, so I am excited to be a part of that. So that's some of what I'll offer today. And then I'll have more details. And I'll be sharing, sharing more as we, as we develop, in all probably create some other channels where we can have more, more community communications and involvement. So thank you.

Nori  1:20:20
Thank you, Johnny, you're next.

Johnny  1:20:25
And see, I'm going to share my screen really quick, just because to Simon's point, I've been thinking very much about some of those points that you're talking about, which is, that's and I came up with kind of a way to kind of organize my thoughts, right? So you have the Cardano platform or protocol, open, public permissionless. And you have things that I consider development of Cardano. And so these are things that you might associate with IOG today. But there's nothing that says it has to be IOG, right? So IOG is maybe a steward a shepherd of this activities, or has the capabilities and the know-how, but really, you know, if we imagine some point in time in the future, where it's everything's being led and done by the community, then IOG might be one of those community members, core contributors’ maintainers of that ecosystem. But these are things that I think of as core development, running and maintaining the platform, break, fix, managing documentation, quality assurance, release, management, etc. And then on the right side, I have this idea of development on Cardano, right. And so you have things like commercial projects, deed, building, daps, DEFI, NFT, marketplaces, gaming, Telecom, connect to connecting the unconnected banking the unbanked tools, and libraries, you'll notice that catalyst is very much ever present in each of those areas. And then you have notions of the ecosystem. So this isn't necessarily just the platform of the protocol, but also the broader ecosystem. And so this is where we think of things like alliances and partnerships, adoption, outreach, and also maybe working and influencing the regulatory landscape. And so you know, these are things where you're working with people who can get fired or voted out of office, if they choose to deploy on Cardano. And so they're going to have a maybe slightly different perspective. But nonetheless, they're a part of our community. And then underneath all of that, you have this notion of governance of the platform. Right? So these are the hard problems of blockchain governance, right. And these are things around Genesis keys, hard fork combinators, protocol parameters use of Treasury voting, CIP, and again, we see catalysts all over this place, right? But you know, this isn't, this is just a way for me to kind of capture some of my thoughts and to your points, Simon, you know, I think that as we start to decompose what it takes to live and participate in and to run and maintain and sustain this ecosystem, eventually, all of this is community driven. This whole circle, everything you see on here, right? It's not just Cardano Foundation. And you know, maybe they have a role as stewards to get us to a certain point. But they cannot, they're only going to get us so far beyond which point it's all going to be community driven. So hopefully, that's some helpful perspective about my current thinking on

Nori  1:23:49
this. Thank you, Johnny. Thanks for sharing that. That's great to see your thoughts in there.

Tevo  1:24:04
I was didn't make it to the screenshot button. Can you show it again, or share the slide?

Johnny  1:24:15
I don't see any reason why not.

Tevo  1:24:21
Also a nice map.

Johnny  1:24:28
And it's not meant to be complete or perfect or anything. It's just, I'm a very visual thinker. And so I have to kind of put it down and then helps me frame the dialogue and conversations that I have with other people. And it's actually something that I'm very much focused on and involved in and driving in my current role at IOG. So

Nori  1:24:52
awesome. Thanks, Johnny. And this is being recorded. So if you missed it and want to screenshot it later, you can take a look at the recording. Dean, your hand is up.

Simon  1:25:05
Yes,

Dean  1:25:06
first of all, thank you guys for sharing, sharing that that helped out a tremendous amount because it helps see the much larger global vision. One thing that I would share, as, as this continues to move forward. One of the things that Cardano. And the opportunity is this concept about this Root of Trust. And one of the things that we had to face is, and we didn't move, in my opinion, soon enough. And this was part of my responsibility at the company I was working with Caldera, was getting to the channel that understood how to influence the markets. Many of what we now know as MFT, did not exist at the time when open source started. In fact, they were called as an ASP were called application service providers were there. And they were trying to figure out how to transition to this marketplace. Moving from I can buy the product from a distributor stuff, one of the things that is happening right now is there are certain channel models that are just, they're literally dying, and not knowing where to go and what to do. And when I take a look at the video over the screen that you put up, that structure will become really, really important to those organizations, those channel partners, they have most of the channel partners now are either on the Microsoft side, or they're on the open-source side. But for the first time in history in the industry, there's been a shift in the way the channel goes to market and what they're doing right now. And so there's a significant opportunity, as we move forward, I believe as Cardano moves forward, is helping those channel organizations begin to understand how they can participate and be involved. Because that one screen Johnny that you just brought up. A lot of lights just clicked. And there are people that are wanting to see it and understand and know that not just how they can participate on the technological side and bringing services to the marketplace. But how can they extend the infrastructure to the very thing that Cardano can provide? So thank you.

Nori  1:27:44
All right, great. Thanks, Dean. And thanks, Johnny. That was a really great visualization of those things. All right. Is there anything else people want to bring up today? Naturally winding down any closing thoughts, Felix?

Felix  1:28:08
Beautiful evolution, I think, just really happy to see how different people from different groups coming together, starting to communicate, and just thanks to everyone that's been impressed by the diversity and the respect of each other from this community.

Melanie  1:28:31
For sure. It's amazing what happens when you open a room to people across the world. This is absolutely fabulous. Thank you.

Nori  1:28:52
All right. I want to thank everybody for coming and participating today. We weren't quite sure what to expect we were just kind of introducing the room and willing to answer questions, and it kind of evolved into something amazing. So thanks, everybody. And we will provide this recording if you want to watch it later or cut clips snippets of it, and we will attempt to transcribe and timestamp it so that you can jump to the interesting bits that you're interested in. So yeah, thanks, everybody for coming today. And well kick it off real on the 16th. But there seems to be version zero. We kind of kick it off today.

Felix  1:29:31
And shout out to Mike. I had a call with him last week. I called him and said, Hey, Mike, how, what do you think? How could event like this look like? And then this conversation came up with some really nice ideas. So thanks again, Mike. Like it's funny.

Nori  1:29:51
Thank you.

1:29:52
Thanks, everyone. All right.

Johnny  1:29:56
Take care. Bye, everyone.

Melanie  1:29:58
Thanks for hosting Nori Have a great day.

